# VS Code Cheat Sheet

----------------------
----------------------



## Content
- [About This Guide](#about-this-guide)
- [VS Code Download](#vs-code-download)
- [Useful VS Code Extensions](#useful-vs-code-extensions)
- [Shortcuts For Dummies](#shortcuts-for-dummies)
- [Github and Gitlab Integration](#github-and-gitlab-integration)



## About This Guide
Last update: 27 June 2023

Author: H. Alvin

This guide is a Work-In-Progress, presented in the form of markdowns.

Meant for beginners who just started to put their ~~hands~~ cursors on VS Code, which will hopefully help ease thhem in the earliest part of their journey.
By all means, this guide is incomplete, may contain mistakes and/or discrepancies with the future VS Code.

------------------------------

## VS Code Download
VS Code is a very convenient IDE free-to-use by everyone. Available for Windows, MacOS, and Linux user in all.

Find the latest version [here](https://code.visualstudio.com).

You only needed to follow the installation as it is.

-------------------------------

## Useful VS Code Extensions
VS Code has a carousel of extension selections for you to use throughout your journey.

To kick off your development journey, the following extensions may be helpful to you.

### ~ Live Share
  > Microsoft
  
  An extension which allows you to collaborate in real-time over VS Code. This is especially useful if you are working in a team and requires quick dynamic and collaboration over your development project. Built-in session chat for mode of communication.
 
  Extension ID: ```MS-vsliveshare.vsliveshare```

### ~ Blackbox AI
  > Blackbox AI

  An extension to provide code snippets generated by AI to help your development where needed. Supports various programming languages as of the latest guide update.

  Extension ID: ```Blackboxapp.blackbox```

### ~ Jupyter
  > Microsoft

  If you've ever used Jupyter notebook, you know where this is going. This extension allows you to open an interactive window to check on your code. This will require Anaconda virtual environment from your machine.

  Extension ID: ```ms-toolsai.jupyter```

---------------------

## Shortcuts For Dummies
The following is a set of keybindings you'll often use, applies assuming the default settings on your keybindings.


| Description             | MacOS           | Windows              |
| ----------------------- | --------------- | -------------------- |
| Moving lines up/down    | ⌥ + Up/Down     | Alt + Up/Down        |
| Add cursor up/down      | ⌥ + ⌘ + Up/Down | Ctrl + Alt + Up/Down |
| Cursor Undo             | ⌘ + U           | Ctrl + U             |
| Select next occurence   | ⌘ + D           | Ctrl + D             |
| Toggle line comment     | ⌘ + /           | Ctrl + /             |
| Open command palette    | ⌘ + Shift + P   | Ctrl + Shift + P     |



### More on Keyboard Shortcuts
You can configure keybindings of your VS Code to your preferences. Here's how:
1. Click on the gear ⚙️ button on the bottom-left corner
2. Click on 'Keyboard Shortcuts'
3. You may scroll down, or use the search bar to look for the commands
4. Double-click on the keybinding column of the command you wand to apply the keybinding to.
5. If conflicts occur, you may attempt to resolve them.
   > Personally, I would recommend binding with unused bindings.

--------------------


## Github and Gitlab Integration
VS Code allows integration with Github and Gitlab.
Hence, enables easier source control over the projects you are working on.

If you have git logged in locally, very likely your credentials wil be automatically bound to VS Code.

Otherwise, click on the profile button on the bottom-left corner to eneter your credentials and log in.


